So, what is the ASP.NET Core?
=============================

It's a web-development platform, which bears it essential role in receiving the request and generating the response.

It has three major parts, like:
1. Application Frameworks: RazorPages, MVC, Blazor, etc.
2. Utility Frameworks: EntityFramework, Identity.
3. Platform features: Middlewares, DI, Cache, and many others.


Platform features
=====================

It's a basis for a building a web-services on ASP.NET.
Every AppFramework is built upon these features.
It's main concern is to cover freaquently requested low-level details for a modern web-server, so it like extends the developer's effectiveness.
You can skip these parts and go right onto the framework of your choice, but more complicated stuff requires knowledge on the basis.
It's a cool one-filed approach to setup everything for the server, therefore this one-file could bloat-up pretty fast.

The Platform features contains:
1. Middleware
2. HttpServer
3. UrlRouting
4. DependencyInjection
5. Configuration & Logging services
6. Cache
7. Model Binding
8. Razor
9. gRPC
10. SignalR

Platform Essentials
--------------------

The `HttpServer` is a mechanism for HTTP I/O built in ASP.NET. Like low-level netcode. It's just wrapping up low level details of HTTP into a nice object and bypasses it onti the Middleware chain (aka RequestPipeline).
The `RequestPipeline` consists of `Middlewares` which are processing incoming request, and then generating the response.
Worth menti0ning that `RequestPipeline` is a highly customizable part of the ASP.NET.
Also, there is a `Service`s, which are just a bunch of any-class, which could be requested by Middleware or other Service.
The ASP.NET handles the injection of real instance of the `Service`. In many ways. Will see in `DI`.


Program.cs structure
----------------------

- `CreateBuilder`   - Makes a basic setup for a server. Raises the ASP-system services, configs.
- `Build`           - Sets up the application services, and builds the `App`.
- `MapGet`          - Sets up an `Endpoint` for the `App`.
- `Run`             - Tells the server to start listening.
- `UseXXX`          - Sets up a `Middleware` for the `App`.

Endpoint vs Middleware
----------------------

Like mentioned before, the Request Pipeline consists of Middlewares.
However, the last `Middleware` in the chain, which has been targeted via UrlBinding, is an `Endpoint`.
So `Middleware`s more like bodyguards face-controlling every request, while `Endpoint` is exact target for a Request.


Frameworks
==============
- `MVC` - Good ol' pattern "which describes the shape of app". It's getting deprecated after mid-10s, when the SPA risen. Still good for a large solutions, because of separation of concerns.
- `RazorPages` - An approach where all stuff for a page is in one place. Requires less boilerplate code, stands better for little chunks of pages or maybe SPA subpages.
- `Blazor` - a framework which allows to make a client side with a C# code.
  - `BlazorServer` - executes client requests on server side.
  - `BlazorWebAssembly` - runs code on the client.


Utilities
============
The `EntityFramework` and the `Identity` are a beyond current scope.

Basically, the first one is all about data, and the second is about security.

---

Request Pipeline
====================

So, one of the Platform's essentials is the Middleware and the request pipeline which is basically a chain of middlewares.
Every Middleware has three logical parts:
1. Process request
2. Bypass next
3. Process response

Every Middleware should call step 2 via calling the `next()` delegate,
otherwise the chain will be interrupted (cirquited).

So, if there is no `next` calls, it means the its the final Middleware in RequestPipeline, the Terminal.

Worth mentioning, that there are two kinds of forms of Middlewares - class and lambda.

Middleware Options - DI
------------------------

Fun thing happens when need to pass a config to a Middleware (which's lifecycle is controlled by the platform, mostly).
When the server is just building, call smth like `builder.AddOptions`, bypass the data-object, which will be available for middlewares via injection:
`MyMiddleware(next, IOption<SomeOption> option);`

Routing
====================

The routing is the way to organize the RequestPipeline via Terminal targeting.
Basically, the Terminal with URL binding is an Endpoint.
The Routing Middleware could be injected onto the request pipeline in order to manage the Pipeline flow like automatically.


// Urgh, feels lazy, dont wanna write in depth and not really recall the details.
// I just dont wanna go in-depth, but I dont have a general picture either.
// Will see later. Tired.
NEXT:
Pipeline
----------------

