# .NET 6

.NET 6 delivers the final parts of the .NET unification plan that started with .NET 5. 
which unifies:
- the SDK,
- base libraries, 
- and runtime across mobile, desktop, IoT, and cloud apps. 

In addition to this unification, the .NET 6 ecosystem offers:

- `Simplified development`: Getting started is easy. New language features in C# 10 reduce the amount of code you need to write. And investments in the web stack and minimal APIs make it easy to quickly write smaller, faster microservices.

- `Better performance`: .NET 6 is the fastest full stack web framework, which lowers compute costs if you're running in the cloud.

- `Ultimate productivity`: .NET 6 and `Visual Studio 2022` provide hot reload, new git tooling, intelligent code editing, robust diagnostics and testing tools, and better team collaboration.

---

- FileStream Performance: rewritten for better perf and reliability on Windows. Never blocks when created for async IO on Win.

- Profile-guided optimization: a step-forward from the `TieredCompilation`. See details [here](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/performance-improvements-in-net-6/#jit)

- Crossgen2: rewritten on C#, able to make analysis and opt impossible before.

- Arm64 support

- Hot reload allows to see app's changes without restart. More details [here](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/update-on-net-hot-reload-progress-and-visual-studio-2022-highlights/)

- .NET Multi-platform App IO (.NET MAUI): still preview, allows to build native client app from shared codebase.

- C#10

- `dotnet workload`: optinal SDK workloads.

- JSON: much improve

- HTTP/3: allows to establish connections more quickly via the `QUIC` connection protocol, and allows mobile clients to roam between Wi-Fi. Details [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/httpclient-http3)

- ASP.NET Core:
  - MinimalAPI,
  - ahead-of-time (AOT) for Blazor WebASM and SPA.
  - Also, Blazor components can now be rendered from JS and integraded with existing Javascript-based apps.
  - See details [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-6.0)

- `OpenTelemetry`: collection of tools, APIs and SDKs that help you analyze app's performance and behaviour.

- `Security`.

- `IL trimming`: now the unused types and members are trimmed too.

- `New Code Analysers` in .NET 6 SDK. Details [here](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers/blob/main/src/NetAnalyzers/Core/AnalyzerReleases.Shipped.md#release-60)

- `Custom platform guards`: OperatingSystem.IsWindows();

- `OS-specific TFM`

- `Generic Math`

- `Nuget package validator`

- `Reflection API`: NullabilityInfo.

- `Microsoft.Extensions API`

- `New LINQ API`: Cool stuff in `Enumerable` class. Like `Chunk` or `TryGetNonEnumeratedCount`.

- `Date, time, timezone`: DateOnly, TimeOnly. More details [here](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/date-time-and-time-zone-enhancements-in-net-6/).

- `PriorityQueue` class. Finally.


# Conclusion

.NET 6 brought huge work all over the place.
Firstly, it unifies the .NET, maybe excluding MAUI for now, but.
Many API improved, IO, web, time and math. JSON.
The performance has been improved even further. 
New tools.
New technologies.
Better productivity.

refs:
- (https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-net-6/)
- (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/whats-new/dotnet-6)
