# .NET 2.1

It was a huge rework for a platfrorm towards the cross-platform, performance increase for build and run, new library and tooling.

## Platform features

### Cross-platform

- Works with all x64, Windows x86, and even ARM devices. See prerequisites for OS version details.
- Self-contained app publish: The app can be published along with it's sdk.
- SourceLink: allows to debug a 3rd party library, if author provided a a mapping for code. Same as a SourceMap in Web.
- Windows Support Pack: a Standart-complied libraries for .NET Framework based code for migration towards .NET Core.
- Snap: Linux self-containered apps.
- NPM-based console
- Global tools

## Performance Increase for build

### Services

The SDK incliudes a long-running services to improve common dev process.
They just an apps which takes some load from build in background mode, the live during the development and fall off automatically.
Some of them are ported, some made from scratch:
- VBCSCompiler
- MSBuild
- Razor Server

### Tiered Compilation

When it comes to JIT-optimization, it acts on any bit of code. 
The problem is, that some code could be called just once, and the opt will take longer than actuall call.
Since .NET Core 2.1, there is an `Adaptive optimization` which counts the calls and then optimizes only the frequently asked code.

## Library

### HttpClient

The HTTP Client has been rewritten, as I heard.
The new `HttpClientHandler` is based on `.NET Sockets` and `Spans`. So it's fresh and brand-new performant stuff.

### Span

In CoreFX, somewhere around C#7.2, the .NET cursors arrived.
So if there is a need to pass some subset from array - just pass a cursor instead of copying.
Good point, finally.

### New Cryptography API

Cant tell. Just mentioning.

# .NET Core 2.2

Enchantments:
- app deploy
- event handling for runtime services
- auth to Azure SQL DB
- JIT compiler perf
- code injection prior to the execution of the `Main` method

# Deploy - Framework-dependent exe

Pretty much an old way to deploy ol' good platform-dependant exe.
Requires installations system-wide.

# Core - Handling events in runtime services

There are some services in the runtime, like a GC, JIT or the ThreadPool.
While ago, at the Framework Era, these services logged events in some windows-specific logger (ETW).
However, it's impossible to get these events from low-priveledge env, or Linux, or MacOS.
Starting with Core 2.2, it's possible to consume these events via `System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventListener` class
or even send them to a `telemetry aggregation service`.

# Runtime - Injecting code prior to executing the Main method
It's a separate entry point which could trigger as a hook before the Main call.
It's cool for deployment, able to add something specific for separate instance, without any rebuild.

[Refs: What's new in .NET Core 2.1, MS Learn]
[Refs: What's new in .NET Core 2.2, MS Learn]
[Refs: Rich Lander, Announcing .NET Core 2.1]


